# Hot and Cold Observables

## Sequence producers

We call **producer** to the code or object that generates the source of values for your observable. 
An **external producer** generates the sequence outside the boundaries of the observable definition. An **internal producer** generates the sequence inside the observable itself.

## Cold observable

An observable is **cold** when its underlying producer is created and activated during subscription. Therefore, cold observables always use an internal producer. **Cold observables emit a dedicated sequence to each observer** (unicast) **once it subscribes**. An observer can stop receiving elements by disposing its subscription.

## Hot observable

A **hot** observable **broadcasts to all its observers the sequence generated by a unique producer**. Thus, subscribing to a hot observable means that all the observers share the same producer, so that all receive the same items. An observer can stop receiving elements by disposing its own subscription. A hot observable is always running, regardless there is any observer listening. Therefore, hot observables always use an external producer.

A hot observable is represented by the _IConnectableObservable_ interface, which extends _IObservable_ by adding a single **Connect** method. An observer can subscribe to a hot observable at any time, but will only receive items if the **Connect** method on the observable has been called.

## Warming a cold observable

Rx provide several ways to warm up a cold observable. In that way, the first observer who subscribes to the observable is the one that lauches the producer (so that it starts emitting items). However, observers will not receive any item unless the **Connect** method of the observable is executed. Subsequent observers subscribing to the hot observable will then receive the same sequence from the moment they subscribe. The observable will continue emitting evens regardless there is any observer listing.

To warm up a cold observable it is usual to use the **Publish** operator. Other useful operator for specefic needs are **PublisLast**, **Replay** and **Multicast**

## Cooling a hot observable

A hot observable can also be cold down, so that the first observer starts the producer and immediately starts receiving items. Subsequent observers will receive the same sequence from the moment they subscribe. In addition, the observable will not emit any item unless at least there&#39;s one observer listening.

This behavior is usually achieved by the **RefCount** operator.

By using both **Publish** and **RefCount** operators, it is possible to create a cold observable which emits the same sequence to all the observers.

